---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Covid-19 and me
date: 2020-04-03
labels:
  - Covid-19
  - Journal
---

# Normal daily life
Before COVID-19 my life was nice, routine and simple. I'd get ready for school, make the 30-45 min. drive over, and study hard to get all of my work done while I'm at school. If I didn't finish all of my work, I'd go to the gym to get a quick workout in, I'd go home, make sure it's finished then play some video games to unwind. If I was able to complete all of my daily tasks, I potentially went out with some friends to get a bite to eat to celebrate another day completed. My life is based on routine. If nothing changes, everything will go as planned and everything will be okay. That day, the day after, and any day in the easily forseen future was predictable. Then COVID-19 hit. Things slowly changed, then all at once.

# COVID's affect on my daily life (Learning and mental health)
During off time's I spend far too much time staring at a screen and playing video games with friends. If I didn't have plans I wouldn't go out of my way to make any. I'm content with staying home and playing games. Mixing learning with staying home is not a good idea for me. At the start of the transition into online classes, I was doing extremely well in school and I slowly learned that in order to keep up, I'd have to cultivate more self dicipline to complete my daily tasks. Waking up in the morning I could sloth around and do nothing with no repercussions, but as homework dates approached and project presentations drew near, I ending up pulling a few all nighters to stay on task. Learning from my mistakes, I'm getting everything done as soon as possible instead of procrastinating. COVID-19 made me a stronger self learner, but also comes at a price.

Aside from being a routine person, I also believe that having a healthy balance in life is important as well. I've lived on both polar ends of the "shut in" to "being out all the time" spectrum and the most important thing I've taken from it is there has to be a good balance. Right now, there isn't a choice to balance, we must stay at home so I'm trying to make the most of it. I've been doing things that I normally don't have the possibility to do, but also lacking on things that I could potentially do outside. I'm able to do much more that I'm not commuting all over the place to do things, but I love driving. The car scene has been a huge positive impact on me, but not being able to go on car cruises or socializing with those of the same interest in person has been sad. I am able to pick up games that I never had the time to play though and that's been pretty cool.

Overall I think I'm doing okay. Things could be better, things could be worse. My family is healthy and I'm doing my best to take care of them in this time of need.

# Change
Although my self dicipline for school has increased, my drive for working out has severely been low. I'm quite a gluton when it comes staying home. Eating a lot, slothing around, and sleeping have been big time killers for me. I'm satisfied with this lifestyle as of now since it's routine, but at some point as this problem continues to exponentially grow, I'm going to have to push myself harder. This whole situation has been bringing my mental health a little down and I'm not the strongest willed, but at some point I'm going to have to make some sort of change in my life.

At a time where many are being diagnosed positive and some are going undiagnosed, we need work together to keep those who are older or not in good health safe from this pandemic. We need to think about others around us first and foremost. Living on the windward side, we have a tourist town and many are catching COVID. Being in one of the higher risk areas, the police are cracking down on those who aren't following the lockdown orders. Moving forward as a community, it's best that we do our best during this incubation stage.
