---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "I'm Hungry"
date: 2020-03-31
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
---
# Overview
Picture this: You're hungry and you don't know what to eat. You turn to your significant other, "hey what do you want?" With a minute of thinking they respond with, "I want what you want." You've been sitting in your car for an hour and a half now at this point and you really need to make a decision.

As a final project, I wanted to propose a web application that took in Yelp as a dataset and chose a food place within specific constraints to randomize your decision for the night whether it be a solution to lack of spontaneity or a solution to indecisiveness. Keeping that in mind ideally you'd be able to select options that will dilute the searches down. These constraints will be: 
* Price
* Pating
* Type of food
* Range around you<a/>

To make sure people aren't upset at the randomness, there will be a refresh button that allows you to reroll your choice.

# Mockup page ideas
Pages:
* Landing page
* Intitial web app page
* Account page
* User settings 
* User preferences
* Create account

The initial web page will have direct access to the randomizer. It will have a small page to select your contraints and a box to display the chosen food place. Other than that a menu bar displaying a log in button and a small app header will be included.

The account page will contain information about yourself. If you'd like to save presets, this would be the place to do so.

# Beyond the basics
Aside from the basics, this web application would have to take in a refreshed yelp dataset. I'm unsure how I'd be able to get a hold of this information, but I'm sure there is access to it or a mock dataset somewhere. Something nice that could tie to this would be to reward users with points if they give their decided place a review. It would help potential local companies get nice exposure.
