---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Leveling up!
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-02-27
labels:
  - Coding standard
  - Programming
---
# Level 1 crook, HTML
Starting off with base HTML, I was getting confused all over the place. Syntax was easy, everything compiled and looked the way I wanted it to, but it's easy to miss divs and have spaghetti code all over the place. One might say that I was but a mere crook climbing out of the sewer. I was struggling to organize everything even if I was able to barely make it by. Base HTML also forced you to write a lot more code for a lot less gain.

# Level 100 boss has saved me, Semantic UI
Alas, UI frameworks, the level 100 boss has come along. He saw me struggling out of the sewers and lent me a hand. If I followed under him, he would show me the way of becoming a boss myself. Learning the way of a mafia boss, he showed me everything from containers to proper items and icons. I may not be a level 100 boss right now, but I've learned. Organization became significantly easier. I became more stylish. Sections became dieted and life became easy. I was no longer a level 1 crook. I was living the good life. Semantic UI made HTML significantly easier. As a useful framework, it took care of that boring style of the base HTML WoD that we had, but I feel like there's probably much better out there. Some other frameworks might be more useful for certain things, but Semantic UI definitely has its uses as well. Being able to sort things into grids and containers makes data easier to handle in the sense that you're able to understand the code. It makes reading it almost like a list. From the top of the website things slowly cascade down with directional instruction to guide the eyes to the right areas. I have no other experience with other frameworks, so I personally can't compare it to anything else, but hopefully React will give me a contrasting opinion on Semantic UI.

Maybe one day I'll be a level 100 boss.
Maybe one day.

<center><iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Yke9BhP1uks" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></center>
