---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: 'Hello World'
date: 2020-05-14
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Life as an SDE
---

# SDE and me
Over the course of this semester, I've learned a lot about software engineering and ultimately through that, learned a substantial amount about myself. Being a very development heavy semester, I took algorithms, reverse software engineering, software engineering, machine learning and also took on a full stack project/internship with DataHouse. Through this journey of athletic software development, I grew as a lifelong learner and computer engineer. In this article, I'll be highlighting some aspects of software development and how it changed me as I'm walking into my final semester of my college career.

# User Interface Frameworks
Not doing much front end development, I got my feet wet this semester with various HTML5 frameworks. In class we learned Javascript and HTML5, but when introducing frameworks such as Semantic UI and React, the bigger picture started to form. A framework encompasses everything you know about a certain language and further expands functionality with specific modules. For my full stack project, we also needed to learn Angular 8. Through this, I saw how powerful front end development can be and with small quirks and fine tuning of modules, you can create something not only fully functional, but also aesthetically pleasing. I think that my knowledge in these topics can grow exponentially, but only after I pick one and stick to it. I'm a firm believer that software developers, instead of taking on every language, should stick to one and become incredibly good at it. As a very single focus oriented person, moving frameworks fast, was an interesting experience, but in practice and time, I'll become great at it.

# Atheletic Software Development
Talking about athletic software development in a past article, I did want to address it here. Athletic software development is a learning style where there is less time to create something in order to create stressful situations for the SDE. The idea is that in practicing coding under stress and working tirelessly to perfect your art, you'll train in order to run with the best developers. This type of learning was interesting to me because I work in the opposite way in normal situations. I believe that I can learn anything given enough time to look at it, but with shorter time constraints, I needed to learn and I needed to learn faster. Increasing my active mental time, I was able to get through this semester very well. Normally getting discouraged half way through, I stuck it out and did the best to keep up with my peers. I can thank athletic software development for this. This different environment for learning really kept the fire lit under me and kept me on my feet. My only gripe with this is I had to learn, in parallel, other full stack development for my internship and they clashed at times. The amount of work was high, but as the semester comes to a close, I'm thankful for that.

In life, this practice may be important. In having the ability to have a learning model that forces you between a rock and a hard place, it will allow you to learn almost anything fast. In having strict time constrained training schedules, you can learn anything. I've personally been relating this to a new game that came out more recently that I've been incredibly interested in called Valorant. As an overall scope of the game, it's a 5v5 multiplayer shooter where one team has to defend points and the other attacks. As I'm trying to become high ranked, I've been spending small amounts of my free time in the shooting range, forcing myself to practice mouse tracking and I've also been learning how to communicate well as a teammate to get important messages across to my team. Below is a montage by one of my favorite pro teams at the time, but the game is still in beta and is ever changing.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Xyr16O5ai8A" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
Team Liquid - Frag Montage

# Ethics in Software Engineering
Ethics is something that's always to be considered as the more we know, the more power we hold. I took software reverse engineering to learn ethical hacking and it went a long way. Learning of the power of pen testing, PE reading and static/dynamic data analysis, I figured that I can use it for good. In software development, the biggest issue of ethics is privacy. As long as people are safe online and private information isn't being shared to those who will do bad, we can create a community and future of computer engineers / computer scientists that will help bring this exponentially expanding digital age to it's peak.

Not only is ethics one thing to keep in consideration in software engineering, but also in real life. I grew up always knowing to do the right thing, but in today's age, there's always going to be gray areas in what is right and what is wrong. As long as everyone's safe, through practice, we should be able to distinguish what is right for us and make the right decisions.

# Overview
This semester taught me more about myself then it did about software engineering. Growing into our niche fields, I can't wait to see what the future has in store for me. The amount of practical experience gained in working together as teams, through athletic software development and through many other classes, is experience that I will cherish for the rest of my life in this field.
