---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Gang of Four (Discovery of Design Patterns)
date: 2020-04-30
labels:
  - Design patterns
  - Gang of Four
---

# Design of object oriented software and patterns without studying design patterns
Coding for over four years now, I've gained a lot of experience along the way. Repetition is helpful to getting accommodated with any type of study or focus. Along the way, in recent history in our software development, design patterns were brought up in the from of the book "Gang of Four." I understood that certain programs were constructed in very familiar ways, but didn't know that there were certain classifications for different types of designs. Going over the schematics, I was left very confused, but saw some similarities in code that I've seen before.

# Patterns in C++
Learning object oriented programming in C++, we were taught pretty early on how to utilize the factory type design pattern. One place where I saw this being used to optimize code was in video game design. As an example, we had a contructor that handled all of the character models even if they were different sizes and shapes, yet allowed us to implement character types through a subclasses. In short the factory type design pattern defines an interface for creating an object, but lets subclasses decide which class to instantiate. Factory pattern provides abstraction between implementation and client classes through inheritance. A disadvantage to a factory is that it is significantly more complex than a normal object oriented class constructor.

# Studying patterns
Doing shallow research into design patterns, moving forward I think it would be important to learn and study the Gang of Four book. In knowing different creational, structural, and behavioral design methods, in practice may allow someone to write code more effectively and ultimately will help you get a job. With the understanding that design patterns will appear in many coding interviews, it's more important to practice through repetition and observation rather than just reading a book, but using the book as a resource in defining what kind of code you write will help along the way. It's not going to be a memorize and toss to the side motive and it may take long to be able to recite design patterns, but it seems incredibly important for the future.
